---
title: Current Release 10.2
tags:
  - 10.2
  - 10.2 release
  - Rocky Linux 10.2
---

## Rocky Linux 10.2

Rocky Linux 10.2 (RL 10.2) is the latest minor release of Rocky Linux's enterprise operating system. Listed in this document are the **most notable** changes between 10.1 and 10.2. If something is not listed, it probably means it has changed little since 10.1. If you are migrating to Rocky Linux 10 for the first time, you might want to review the release notes for [10.0](10_0.md) and [10.1](10.1.md) as well. Some critical notes remain from these previous versions.

### Upgrading to Rocky Linux 10.2

To upgrade from any version of RL 10 to 10.2, simply run `dnf -y upgrade`.

Rocky Linux does not support upgrades to any major release. To move from 8.x or 9.x to Rocky Linux 10.x, perform a fresh install of the operating system and restore data from a backup.

### New Features and Changes

The following sections describe selected features of RL 10.2.

As with all Rocky Linux releases, this release note covers numerous enhancements, changes, and new features.

For a complete list of major changes, see the upstream listing [here](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/10/html/10.2_release_notes/overview).

### Supported Architectures

!!! warning "Please check CPU Compatibility"

    On the x86_64 processor architecture, RL 10 no longer supports hardware at the x86-64-v2 microarchitecture level and earlier, and makes the x86-64-v3 microarchitecture level the baseline for distribution. To test your CPU's microarchitecture compatibility, [use this procedure](../gemstones/test_cpu_compat.md).

!!! info "32-bit package discontinuation"

    Rocky Linux 10 removed 32-bit compatibility for x86_64. Use 64-bit libraries or containers with 32-bit dependencies instead.

Rocky Linux 10.2 is supported on the following processor architectures:

- 64-bit AMD/Intel x86-64-v3 and later (x86_64)
- 64-bit RISC-V (riscv64)
- 64-bit ARMv8.0-A (aarch64)
- IBM POWER10 and later, little endian (ppc64le)
- IBM z15 and later (s390x)

#### Support for RISC-V Architecture

The Rocky Linux release Engineering team worked long and hard to bring Rocky Linux 10 to certain "RISC-V implementations".
Platforms/subsystems supported on release day include - StarFive VisionFive 2 (VF2), **QEMU**, and SiFive HiFive Premier P550.

For more details about this milestone, including RL10’s RISC-V support, please visit [this site](https://rockylinux.org/news/rockylinux-support-for-riscv).

#### Supported Microarchitecture Levels

The x86-64-v3 microarchitecture is based on the feature set of the Intel Haswell processor generation. A handful of Intel Atom processors (such as the Gracemont-family processors) support x86-64-v3. In contrast, others, including Intel Atom Parker Ridge-family processors and the Intel Atom x6416RE Elkhart Lake-family processor, do not provide x86-64-v3 features and are therefore not supported in RL 10. If you doubt your processor's compatibility, [use this procedure](../gemstones/test_cpu_compat.md) to verify.

AMD's implementation of the x86-64-v3 microarchitecture level, which serves as the baseline for Rocky Linux 10 on x86_64, was introduced with their Excavator microarchitecture. This means that processors older than those based on the Excavator architecture might not be fully supported by Rocky Linux 10.

!!! Note "Raspberry Pi image differences"

    The key difference between the Rocky Linux Pi images for version 10 is that 10 supports Pi 4 and Pi 5, whereas 9 supports Pi 3, Pi 4, Pi 5, and Pi Zero 2W.

### Infrastructure services

- PostgreSQL 18 packages are now available.
- MariaDB 11.8 packages are now available.
- PHP 8.4 availability.
- `chrony` packages updated to 4.8.
- `frr` packages updated to 10.4.1.

### Kernel

- support for Kernel Livepatches
- extends kernel observability with additional `perf` features and new Intel core, unicore, c-state, and package performance events.
- more closely aligned `perf` and BPF tooling with upstream, including updating `perf` to the upstream version and enabling `debuginfod` support.
- expands `uncore` and `core` performance counters for newer Intel platforms and adds AMD IBS load-latency filtering, improving CPU and memory analysis.
- adds or updates drivers and device IDs for Intel EDAC, Intel QAT, and Intel/AMD accelerator and crypto devices, improving hardware coverage.
- extends `rtla` threshold overflow actions, adds `cpupower` Python bindings, and updates `rteval`, improving realtime analysis and tuning.
- updates kernel debugging and crash analysis by rebasing `crash` and enhancing LUKS-aware kdump handling in both the kernel and kdump utilities.

### Security Features

- **keylime-agent** rebased to 0.2.9
- **fapolicyd** packages rebased to 1.4.3 with rule filtering ability
- **clevis-pin-trustee** package provides a new Clevis pin trustee, enabling automated encryption and decryption of LUKS-encrypted volumes by using remote attestation through the Trustee Key Broker Service (KBS).
- **capnproto** a new package that provides a high-performance data interchange and remote procedure call (RPC) system, using zero-copy serialization to eliminate overhead of traditional encoding and decoding.
- **openssh** package introduces Module-Lattice-Based Key-Encapsulation Mechanism (ML-KEM) post-quantum (PQ) key exchange combined with elliptic curves standardized by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) in FIPS mode.
- **libssh** introduces support for post-quantum traditional (PQ/T) hybrid key exchange methods based on the quantum-resistant ML-KEM standard and traditional Elliptic-curve Diffie-Hellman (ECDH) key exchange schemes.
- **p11-kit** packages upgraded to upstream version 0.26.1 delivering support for post-quantum cryptography (PQC) definitions in PKCS #11 headers.
- **podman-sequoia** library supports composite post-quantum signatures.

### Desktop Environment

For information about desktop application changes review the [10.0 release notes](https://docs.rockylinux.org/release_notes/10_0/).

Flatpaks are now the default delivery method for Mozilla Firefox and Thunderbird.

### Dynamic programming languages, web, and database servers

The primary change in this category in 10.2 is later versions of the following database servers:

- MariaDB 11.8

### Compilers and development tools

#### System toolchain

Rocky Linux 10.2 includes the following system toolchain components:

- Annobin 13.02

#### Compiler toolsets

- GCC Toolset 15, including:

    - GCC 15.2
    - Binutils 2.44
- LLVM Toolset 21.1.8
- Rust Toolset 1.92.0
- Go Toolset 1.26.0

#### Performance tools and debuggers

- GDB 16.3
- SystemTap 5.4
- elfutils 0.194
- libabigail 2.9

## Known Issues

The Rocky testing team reported no significant problems with 10.1. As always, though, there are [known issues reported in the upstream here.](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/10/html/10.1_release_notes/known-issues)

## Participating and reporting bugs

Please report any bugs you encounter to the [Rocky Linux Bug Tracker](https://bugs.rockylinux.org/). We also welcome you to join our community in any way you wish, be it on our [Forums](https://forums.rockylinux.org), [Mattermost](https://chat.rockylinux.org), [IRC on Libera.Chat](irc://irc.liberachat/rockylinux), [Reddit](https://reddit.com/r/rockylinux), [Mailing Lists](https://lists.resf.org), or any other way you want to participate!
