---
title: Release 8.7
tags:
  - 8.7
  - 8.7 release
  - Rocky 8.7
---

# Release Notes for Rocky Linux 8.7

!!! note "Minimal ISO"

    The minimal ISO does not contain the AppStream repository. This means that packages that come from AppStream will be absent after an install using the Minimal ISO. Examples of such packages include - rsyslog, policycoreutils-python-utils and so on. This is not a bug and is to be expected.

## Upgrading From Any Rocky Linux 8 Version

Simply run `sudo dnf -y upgrade`

## Cloud Images

As well as the normal install images, there are several images available for new and existing cloud platforms.

In between Rocky Linux 8.6 and 8.7, images for Oracle Cloud Platform (OCP) were developed and released. The Oracle images join our existing set of images including GenericCloud, Amazon AWS (EC2), Container RootFS/OCI, Vagrant (Libvirt, VirtualBox, and VMWare), Google Cloud Platform, Microsoft Azure, and other CSP-maintained images.

Additionally, The GenericCloud, EC2, and Azure images now have a variant which uses an LVM partition for the root filesystem, allowing systems administrators additional flexibility and options for configuring their systems.

More information on the artifacts produced by the Cloud Special Interest Group, as well as information on how to get involved can be found on the [SIG/Cloud Wiki](https://sig-cloud.rocky.page/) page.

## Known Issues

There are no known issues currently found in 8.7. We will add them here later if they show up after the release.

## Major Changes

For a complete list of major changes, please see the upstream listing [here](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html/8.7_release_notes/overview#overview-major-changes).

Below are some highlights.

### Security

* Network Security Services (NSS) no longer supports RSA keys shorter than 1023 bits.
* `clevis-luks-askpass` is now enabled by default.
* `fapolicyd` rebased to 1.1.3

#### DISA STIG

This release modifies the `scap-security-guide` so that it is better aligned with DISA. For more information on this and other security related changes, see the [upstream document](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html/8.7_release_notes/new-features#enhancement_security)

* SCAP Security Guide (SSG) rebased to 0.1.63 along with several other changes relating to SSG and DISA STIG.

### Shells and command-line Tools

* `xmlstarlet` - a new tool that provides a simple set of command-line utilities for parsing XML files.
* `opencryptoki` updated to 3.18.0
* `powerpc-utils` updated to 1.3.10
* `libva` updated to 2.13.0

### Networking

* NetworkManager rebased to 1.40. For notable changes see the [upstream release notes here](https://github.com/NetworkManager/NetworkManager/blob/nm-1-40/NEWS).
* NetworkManager now stores the DHCP lease information in the`/run/NetworkManager/devices/` directory

### Filesystem And Storage

* `nfsrahead` has been added. Can be used to modify `readahead` value for NFS mounts, and thus affect the NFS read performance.
* `rpcctl` command now displays SunRPC connection information.
* `multipath.conf` can now include protocol-specific configuration overrides in DM Multipath

### Dynamic Programming Languages, Web and Database Servers

#### Module Streams

Later versions of the following components are now available as new module streams:

* `ruby:3.1`
* `mercurial:6.2`
* `Node.js 18`

#### Additional Changes

* `mariadb-java-client` rebased to version 2.7.1
* `redis` rebased to 6.2.7
* A new default for the `LimitRequestBody` directive in `httpd` configuration

For more on these changes, visit the [upstream page](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html/8.7_release_notes/new-features#enhancement_dynamic-programming-languages-web-and-database-servers) dealing with these changes.

### Infrastructure Services

* `chrony` updated to 4.2
* `unbound` updated to 1.16.2

### Compilers And Development Tools

#### Changes Related to Processors and Machines

* `libpfm` now supports AMD Zen 2 and Zen 3 processors
* `papi` now supports AMD Zen 2 and Zen 3 processors
* Improved hardware identification for ARM processors
* The `LLVM gold plugin` is now available on the IBM Z architecture

#### GCC Toolset 12

* Annobin rebased to version 10.79
* `binutils` rebased to version 2.38
* GCC 12 and later supports `_FORTIFY_SOURCE` level 3
* GDB rebased to version 11.2

#### Module-Streams

* New module stream `maven:3.8`

#### Additional-Changes

* DNS stub resolver option now supports `no-aaaa` option
* Rust Toolset rebased to version 1.62.1
* LLVM Toolset rebased to version 14.0.0

### Identity Management

* SSSD now supports memory caching for SID requests
* IdM now supports configuring an AD Trust with Windows Server 2022
* IdM now indicates whether a given name is a user or a group in a trusted AD domain during a name search
* New `ipasmartcard_server` and `ipasmartcard_client` roles
* `samba` rebased to version 4.16.1
* SSSD now supports direct integration with Windows Server 2022

### Virtualization

* open-vm-tools rebased to 12.0.5
* ESXi hypervisor and SEV-ES is now fully supported

## Reporting Bugs

Please report any bugs you encounter to the [Rocky Linux Bug Tracker](https://bugs.rockylinux.org/). We also welcome you to join our community in any way you wish be it on our [Forums](https://forums.rockylinux.org), [Mattermost](https://chat.rockylinux.org), [IRC on Libera.Chat](irc://irc.liberachat/rockylinux), [Reddit](https://reddit.com/r/rockylinux), [Mailing Lists](https://lists.resf.org), or any other way you wish to participate!
