---
title: Current Release 9.6
tags:
  - 9.6
  - 9.6 release
  - Rocky 9.6
---

## Release notes for Rocky Linux 9.6

You can find a complete list of most changes in the [upstream release notes found here](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/9.6_release_notes/index).

## Upgrading

You can upgrade from Rocky Linux 9.x to Rocky Linux 9.6 by running `sudo dnf -y upgrade`.

!!! Note

    Rocky Linux does not offer an upgrade path from any version of Rocky Linux 8. We recommend doing a fresh OS install to move to Rocky Linux 9.6.

## Images

Several images are available along with the normal install images, including cloud and container platforms.

You can find more on the artifacts produced by the Cloud Special Interest Group, and information on how to get involved on the [SIG/Cloud Wiki page](https://sig-cloud.rocky.page/).

### Image build workflow and process

With the release of Rocky Linux 9.6, the process of building and delivering our images continues to improve. KIWI created most of the images for this release, which is a modern image-building tool that allows for a more consistent and maintainable workflow.

Images still built using ImageFactory include Vagrant (Libvirt, VirtualBox, and VMware) and OCP-Base (Oracle Cloud Platform). All other Cloud and Container images are now built with KIWI. This transition enables us to publish updates more frequently across supported platforms while maintaining feature parity with prior releases.

If you encounter issues or differences in behavior, please report them—we aim to resolve or explain any unexpected changes quickly.

## Installing

Prior to installing, [ensure compatibility of your CPU with this procedure!](https://docs.rockylinux.org/gemstones/test_cpu_compat/)

To install Rocky Linux 9.6, head to the [download page](https://rockylinux.org/download/) and download the version you need for your architecture.

## The Rocky team release highlights

### New and notable

## Major changes

For a complete list of major changes, see the [upstream listing here](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/9.6_release_notes/overview#overview-major-changes).

Highlights and new features from this release are detailed next.

### Security

Listed below are security-related highlights in the latest Rocky Linux 9.6 release. For a complete list of security-related changes, see the [upstream link here](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/9.6_release_notes/new-features#new-features-security):

* **SELinux** now provides a boolean that allows QEMU Guest Agent to execute confined commands.
* **OpenSSL** TLS toolkit upgrades to 3.2.2. OpenSSL now supports certificate compression extension and adds in Brainpool Curves to the TLS 1.3 protocol
* **ca-certificates** program now provides trusted CA roots in the OpenSSL directory format
* **crypto-policies** packages are updated to extend its control to algorithm sections in Java
* **NSS** cryptographic toolkit are rebased to upstream version 3.101

### Dynamic programming languages, web, and database servers

For a detailed list of the changes in this category see the [upstream link here](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/9.6_release_notes/new-features#new-features-dynamic-programming-languages-web-and-database-servers).

Later versions of the following Application Streams are now available:

* **Apache HTTP Server 2.4.62**
* **Node.js 22**

### Compilers and development tools

For details on the changes in this category [see the upstream link here](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/9.6_release_notes/new-features#new-features-compilers-and-development-tools)

Updated system toolchain components:

* **GCC 11.5**
* **Annobin 12.70**

Updated performance tools and debuggers:

* **GDB 14.2**
* **Valgrind 3.23.0**
* **SystemTap 5.1**
* **elfutils 0.191**
* **libabigail 2.5**

Updated performance monitoring tools:

* **PCP 6.2.2**
* **Grafana 10.2.6**

Updated compiler toolsets:

* **GCC Toolset 14**
* **LLVM Toolset 18.1.8**
* **Rust Toolset 1.79.0**
* **Go Toolset 1.22**

Updated default Java implementation to `java-17-openjdk`:

* After this update the `java`, `java-devel` and `jre` packages will install Java 17 instead of Java 11.

### Web console

The `cockpit-files` package got added for easier file management in the web console.
This file manager can perform basic tasks such as browsing the files and directories, copy/move/delete and download/upload files.

### Container management

Podman got a major update to v5.0, including new features like:

* Extended Quadlet support (automatic `systemd` service generation)
* Manifest management
* Full support for multi-architecture image builds

This also includes several new features of the other container tools like Buildah or Skopeo.

## Known issues

As with any release, there are many known issues. Review the [upstream listing](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/9.6_release_notes/known-issues) for the complete details on these issues.

### Help in Anaconda

**verify** Currently the help buttons when clicked in Anaconda only show blank pages.

!!! info "Deprecated Software"

    Some Application Streams, which are part of the Rocky Linux 9.6 repositories, will not receive any further updates. This is a normal occurrence that happens with nearly every release. Ensure that you are using the supported version of software.

## Reporting bugs

Please report any bugs you encounter to the [Rocky Linux Bug Tracker](https://bugs.rockylinux.org/). We also welcome you to join our community in any way you wish be it on our [Forums](https://forums.rockylinux.org), [Mattermost](https://chat.rockylinux.org), [IRC on Libera.Chat](irc://irc.liberachat/rockylinux), [Reddit](https://reddit.com/r/rockylinux), [Mailing Lists](https://lists.resf.org), or any other way you wish to participate!
