docs/guides/file_sharing/samba_file_share.md, before:

---
title: Samba Windows File Sharing
author: Neel Chauhan
contributors:
tested_with: 9.4
tags:
  - file transfer
  - windows
---

## Introduction

If you've ever dealt with Windows systems chances are you're aware of SMB (Server Message Block) for file sharing. If you're a seasoned Linux administrator chances are that you've heard of Samba but if you haven't, [Samba](https://www.samba.org/) is the de-facto open source implementation of SMB to enable file sharing and Active Directory access of Linux machines to Windows networks.

## Installation

You need to install Samba from the `dnf` repositories:

```bash
dnf install -y samba
```

## Setting up a share

First make a directory you want to share with Windows clients:

```bash
mkdir /var/store
```

Subsequently you will set the SELinux labels on the `/var/store` directory:

```bash
semanage fcontext -a -t samba_share_t  "/var/store(/.*)?"
restorecon -Rv /var/store
```

Replace `/var/store` with the directory to be shared.

Next we will configure Samba:

```bash
vi /etc/samba/smb.conf
```

In the `smb.conf` file navigate to the bottom and insert the following:

```bash
[Share]
        path = /var/store
        browseable = yes
        writable = no
        read only = yes
        guest ok = yes
```

If you're unaware of the options above, they are:

 * `path` is the directory we are sharing. Set this to your respective directory (`/var/store` in our case).
 * `browseable` is to allow clients to browsing access. If you wish to disallow browsing set this to `no`.
 * `writable` is to allow clients writing access. If you wish to allow write access set this to `yes`.
 * `read only` is to mark the share as read-only. If you wish to allow write or execute access set this to `no`.
 * `guest ok` is to allow non-authenticated users access to our share. If you wish to deny guests set this to `no`.

To test the configuration you can run:

```bash
testparm
```

## Enabling Samba

Ocne the configuration is okay you will open the Samba port in `firewall-cmd`:

```bash
firewall-cmd --permanent --add-service=samba
firewall-cmd --reload
```

Nest, you can enable Samba:

```bash
systemctl enable --now smb nmb
```

## Accessing the Samba share

You can access the Samba share using the following URI (Note: replace `SERVER_IP` with the IP address or FQDN of your machine running Samba):

 * Windows: `\\SERVER_IP`
 * Linux/Mac: `smb://SERVER_IP`

`SERVER_IP` on the author's home network is `172.20.0.100` so while the instructions vary based on operating system the author will access the new share from their Fedora 40 laptop:

![Fedora 40 Nautilus showing our Samba Share](../images/samba_nautilus.png)

As you can see all files accessible on the server are also available on client machines.

## Conclusion

While SMB has a reputation of being Microsoft-centric, SMB is actually an industry standard and your Samba share can be accessed from Linux, Mac, BSD and even mobile devices. So congratulations, you are sharing your server's files now!

Commit message:

Light editing `samba_file_share.md` * replace conjunctions with words * replace wish with want (preferred language for some reason) * replace laptop with notebook, again preferred * fix a couple of spelling mistakes or typos * some minor sentence rewording and simplification

docs/guides/file_sharing/samba_file_share.md, after:

---
title: Samba Windows File Sharing
author: Neel Chauhan
contributors: Steven Spencer
tested_with: 9.4
tags:
  - file transfer
  - windows
---

## Introduction

If you have ever dealt with Windows systems chances are you are aware of SMB (Server Message Block) for file sharing. If you are a seasoned Linux administrator chances are that you have heard of Samba but if you have not, [Samba](https://www.samba.org/) is the de-facto open source implementation of SMB to enable file sharing and Active Directory access from Linux machines to Windows networks.

## Installation

You need to install Samba using `dnf`:

```bash
dnf install -y samba
```

## Setting up a share

First make a directory you want to share with Windows clients:

```bash
mkdir /var/store
```

Next set the SELinux labels on the `/var/store` directory:

```bash
semanage fcontext -a -t samba_share_t  "/var/store(/.*)?"
restorecon -Rv /var/store
```

Replace `/var/store` with the directory to be shared.

Now configure Samba:

```bash
vi /etc/samba/smb.conf
```

In the `smb.conf` file navigate to the bottom and insert the following:

```bash
[Share]
        path = /var/store
        browseable = yes
        writable = no
        read only = yes
        guest ok = yes
```

If you are unaware of the options above, they are:

* `path` is the directory we are sharing. Set this to your respective directory (`/var/store` in our case).
* `browseable` is to allow clients to browsing access. If you want to disallow browsing set this to `no`.
* `writable` is to allow clients writing access. If you want to allow write access set this to `yes`.
* `read only` is to mark the share as read-only. If you want to allow write or execute access set this to `no`.
* `guest ok` is to allow non-authenticated users access to our share. If you want to deny guests set this to `no`.

To test the configuration you can run:

```bash
testparm
```

## Enabling Samba

Once the configuration tests OK, open the Samba port in `firewall-cmd`:

```bash
firewall-cmd --permanent --add-service=samba
firewall-cmd --reload
```

Next, you can enable Samba:

```bash
systemctl enable --now smb nmb
```

## Accessing the Samba share

You can access the Samba share using the following URI (Note: replace `SERVER_IP` with the IP address or FQDN of your machine running Samba):

* Windows: `\\SERVER_IP`
* Linux or Mac: `smb://SERVER_IP`

`SERVER_IP` on the author's home network is `172.20.0.100` so while the instructions vary based on operating system, the author will access the new share from their Fedora 40 notebook:

![Fedora 40 Nautilus showing our Samba Share](../images/samba_nautilus.png)

All files accessible on the server are also available on client machines.

## Conclusion

While SMB has a reputation of being Microsoft-centric, SMB is actually an industry standard and your Samba share can be accessed from Linux, Mac, BSD and even mobile devices. So congratulations, you are sharing your server's files now!
