docs/books/nvchad/vale_nvchad.md, before:

---
title: Using vale in NvChad
author: Steven Spencer
contributors: Franco Colussi, Krista Burdine, Serge, Ganna Zhyrnova
tags:
  - vale
  - linters
---

# `vale` in NvChad (Neovim)

## :material-message-outline: Introduction

`vale.sh` is one of the foremost open source projects for technical writers looking to improve their voice and style consistency. It can be used with a number of editors on nearly every major OS platform (Linux, MacOS, Windows). You can find out more about the project by heading up to [the vale.sh website](https://vale.sh/). This guide is going to walk you through adding `vale` to NvChad. Since it is included in the Mason packages used for install, the process is not too difficult, although it does involve some minor editing and configuration to get things going. To be clear, NvChad is really the configuration manager for the editor Neovim, so from this point forward, the reference will be `nvim`.

## :material-arrow-bottom-right-bold-outline: Prerequisites

* Familiarity with NvChad 2.0 is helpful
* Ability to change files from the command line by using your favorite editor. (`vi` or your favorite)
* The *nvim-lint* plugin is correctly installed in NvChad.

### :material-monitor-arrow-down-variant: Installation of nvim-lint

The [nvim-lint](https://github.com/mfussenegger/nvim-lint) plugin provides support for inserting ==linters== into the editor by correcting code or content for both the syntactic and semantic parts.

To install the plugin, you need to edit the `custom/plugins.lua` file by adding the following block of code:

```lua title="plugins.lua"
  {
    "mfussenegger/nvim-lint",
    event = "VeryLazy",
    config = function()
      require "custom.configs.lint"
    end,
  },
```

The plugin has a configuration file to be placed in the `custom/configs` folder. Inside it we find a table ==linters_by_ft== where you can enter the *linters* for the languages used for development.

```lua title="lint.lua"
require("lint").linters_by_ft = {
  markdown = { "markdownlint" },
  yaml = { "yamllint" },
}

vim.api.nvim_create_autocmd({ "BufWritePost" }, {
  callback = function()
    require("lint").try_lint()
  end,
})
```

This configuration file is set to work with markdown code but can be modified or extended with [those available](https://github.com/mfussenegger/nvim-lint?tab=readme-ov-file#available-linters) on the project site.  

Once the changes are complete exit and re-enter NvChad to install the plugin and import the configuration.

## :material-monitor-arrow-down-variant: Installing `vale` using Mason

Installing `vale` from within NvChad using Mason, will keep the package up-to-date with just a few extra steps. Running Mason periodically from within `nvim` will show you if there are updates that need to be installed and allow you to update them from there. This includes `vale` once it is installed. Let us start by running `nvim` to pull up an empty file and then get into the command mode by using ++shift++ + ++":"++ + Mason, which should show an interface similar to this one:

![vale_mason](images/vale_mason.png)

Rather than looking at the entire list of packages, let us use menu item 4 to limit the listing to linters. Press ++4++ and scroll down in the list until you find `vale` and with your cursor on that line, press ++"i"++ to install. Your listing should now show `vale` installed:

![vale_mason_installed](images/vale_mason_installed.png)

### :material-timer-cog-outline: Configuring and initializing `vale`

There are two methods you can use to configure `vale`. You can pick your favorite from the two options below. One will have you create the configuration files from within the path of the `vale` binary, then move them to your home folder, and the other will have you create the configuration files directly in your home folder. They work equally well. The second option has fewer manual steps, but requires the long path to the `vale` binary.

!!! tip

    If you want to hide your "styles" folder (below), modify the contents of the `.vale.ini` slightly during creation by changing the "StylesPath" option from "styles" to something hidden such as ".styles" or ".vale_styles." Example:

    ```
    StylesPath = .vale_styles
    ```

Just having `vale` installed is not enough. You need a couple of additional items. First, you need a `.vale.ini` file that will live in the root of your home folder. Next, you will need to generate the "styles" directory using `vale sync`.

=== "Installing from within the path of the `vale` Binary"

    If you are in the path of the `vale` binary here: `~/.local/share/nvim/mason/packages/vale/` you can simply create the `.vale.ini` file here, generate the "styles" directory, and then move both of them to your home root `~/`. Creating the `.vale.ini` file is easy using the configuration utility from [the `vale.sh` website](https://vale.sh/generator). Here, choose "Red Hat Documentation Style Guide" for the base style and "alex" for the supplementary style. Using 'alex' is optional, but helps you catch and fix gendered, polarizing, or race-related words, etc., which is important. If you choose those options, your screen should look like this:

    ![vale_ini_nvchad](images/vale_ini_nvchad.png)

    Simply copy the contents at the bottom, create the `.vale.ini` file with your favorite editor, and paste what you copied in.

    You need to create the "styles" folder. Do this by running the `vale` binary with the `sync` command. Again, if you are doing this from the `~/.local/share/nvim/mason/packages/vale/` directory, just do:

    ```bash
    ./vale sync
    ```

    This will show the following when done:

    ![vale_sync](images/vale_sync.png)

    Copy the `.vale.ini` and the `styles` folder to the root of your home folder:

    ```bash
    cp .vale.ini ~/
    cp -rf styles ~/
    ```

=== "Installing from your home directory"

    If you prefer not to have to copy the files and just want to create them in your home directory, you can use this command from `~/`:

    First, create the `.vale.ini` in your home folder using [the `vale.sh` website](https://vale.sh/generator). Again, choose "Red Hat Documentation Style Guide" for your base style and "alex" for the supplementary style. Then copy the contents into the `.vale.ini` file.

    ![vale_ini_nvchad](images/vale_ini_nvchad.png)

    Next, run the `vale sync` command. Since you are in your home directory, you will need the entire path to the binary:

    ```bash
    ~/.local/share/nvim/mason/packages/vale/vale sync
    ```

    ![vale_sync](images/vale_sync.png)

    In this case, there is no need to copy the files as they will be created in your home directory root.

### :material-file-edit-outline: The `lint.lua` file changes

There is one final step needed. You need to change the `lint.lua` file found in `~/.config/nvim/lua/custom/configs/` and add the `vale` linter.

Using the example shown above to add *vale* to the linter available for markdown files it will be necessary to add the new linter to the string already present:

```lua
markdown = { "markdownlint", "vale" },
```

Your file will look something like this when completed:

```lua
require("lint").linters_by_ft = {
  markdown = { "markdownlint", "vale" },
  yaml = { "yamllint" },
}

vim.api.nvim_create_autocmd({ "BufWritePost" }, {
  callback = function()
    require("lint").try_lint()
  end,
})

```

## Conclusions and final thoughts

Starting `nvim` normally will now invoke `vale`, and your documents will now be compared against your preferred style. Opening an existing file will start `vale` and show you any flagged items, while starting a new file will not show you anything in insert mode. When you exit insert mode, your file will then be checked. This keeps the screen from being too cluttered. `vale` is an excellent open source product with great integration into many editors. NvChad is no exception, and while getting it up and running does take a few steps, it is not a difficult procedure.

Commit message:

inserted temporary warnings for NvChad version 2.5 (#1918)

docs/books/nvchad/vale_nvchad.md, after:

---
title: Using vale in NvChad
author: Steven Spencer
contributors: Franco Colussi, Krista Burdine, Serge, Ganna Zhyrnova
tags:
  - vale
  - linters
---

# `vale` in NvChad (Neovim)

!!! danger "Wrong instructions"

    With the release of version 2.5, the instructions on this page are no longer correct; its use is not recommended for new installations. For more information see [the main page of the guide](../index.md).

## :material-message-outline: Introduction

`vale.sh` is one of the foremost open source projects for technical writers looking to improve their voice and style consistency. It can be used with a number of editors on nearly every major OS platform (Linux, MacOS, Windows). You can find out more about the project by heading up to [the vale.sh website](https://vale.sh/). This guide is going to walk you through adding `vale` to NvChad. Since it is included in the Mason packages used for install, the process is not too difficult, although it does involve some minor editing and configuration to get things going. To be clear, NvChad is really the configuration manager for the editor Neovim, so from this point forward, the reference will be `nvim`.

## :material-arrow-bottom-right-bold-outline: Prerequisites

* Familiarity with NvChad 2.0 is helpful
* Ability to change files from the command line by using your favorite editor. (`vi` or your favorite)
* The *nvim-lint* plugin is correctly installed in NvChad.

### :material-monitor-arrow-down-variant: Installation of nvim-lint

The [nvim-lint](https://github.com/mfussenegger/nvim-lint) plugin provides support for inserting ==linters== into the editor by correcting code or content for both the syntactic and semantic parts.

To install the plugin, you need to edit the `custom/plugins.lua` file by adding the following block of code:

```lua title="plugins.lua"
  {
    "mfussenegger/nvim-lint",
    event = "VeryLazy",
    config = function()
      require "custom.configs.lint"
    end,
  },
```

The plugin has a configuration file to be placed in the `custom/configs` folder. Inside it we find a table ==linters_by_ft== where you can enter the *linters* for the languages used for development.

```lua title="lint.lua"
require("lint").linters_by_ft = {
  markdown = { "markdownlint" },
  yaml = { "yamllint" },
}

vim.api.nvim_create_autocmd({ "BufWritePost" }, {
  callback = function()
    require("lint").try_lint()
  end,
})
```

This configuration file is set to work with markdown code but can be modified or extended with [those available](https://github.com/mfussenegger/nvim-lint?tab=readme-ov-file#available-linters) on the project site.  

Once the changes are complete exit and re-enter NvChad to install the plugin and import the configuration.

## :material-monitor-arrow-down-variant: Installing `vale` using Mason

Installing `vale` from within NvChad using Mason, will keep the package up-to-date with just a few extra steps. Running Mason periodically from within `nvim` will show you if there are updates that need to be installed and allow you to update them from there. This includes `vale` once it is installed. Let us start by running `nvim` to pull up an empty file and then get into the command mode by using ++shift++ + ++":"++ + Mason, which should show an interface similar to this one:

![vale_mason](images/vale_mason.png)

Rather than looking at the entire list of packages, let us use menu item 4 to limit the listing to linters. Press ++4++ and scroll down in the list until you find `vale` and with your cursor on that line, press ++"i"++ to install. Your listing should now show `vale` installed:

![vale_mason_installed](images/vale_mason_installed.png)

### :material-timer-cog-outline: Configuring and initializing `vale`

There are two methods you can use to configure `vale`. You can pick your favorite from the two options below. One will have you create the configuration files from within the path of the `vale` binary, then move them to your home folder, and the other will have you create the configuration files directly in your home folder. They work equally well. The second option has fewer manual steps, but requires the long path to the `vale` binary.

!!! tip

    If you want to hide your "styles" folder (below), modify the contents of the `.vale.ini` slightly during creation by changing the "StylesPath" option from "styles" to something hidden such as ".styles" or ".vale_styles." Example:

    ```
    StylesPath = .vale_styles
    ```

Just having `vale` installed is not enough. You need a couple of additional items. First, you need a `.vale.ini` file that will live in the root of your home folder. Next, you will need to generate the "styles" directory using `vale sync`.

=== "Installing from within the path of the `vale` Binary"

    If you are in the path of the `vale` binary here: `~/.local/share/nvim/mason/packages/vale/` you can simply create the `.vale.ini` file here, generate the "styles" directory, and then move both of them to your home root `~/`. Creating the `.vale.ini` file is easy using the configuration utility from [the `vale.sh` website](https://vale.sh/generator). Here, choose "Red Hat Documentation Style Guide" for the base style and "alex" for the supplementary style. Using 'alex' is optional, but helps you catch and fix gendered, polarizing, or race-related words, etc., which is important. If you choose those options, your screen should look like this:

    ![vale_ini_nvchad](images/vale_ini_nvchad.png)

    Simply copy the contents at the bottom, create the `.vale.ini` file with your favorite editor, and paste what you copied in.

    You need to create the "styles" folder. Do this by running the `vale` binary with the `sync` command. Again, if you are doing this from the `~/.local/share/nvim/mason/packages/vale/` directory, just do:

    ```bash
    ./vale sync
    ```

    This will show the following when done:

    ![vale_sync](images/vale_sync.png)

    Copy the `.vale.ini` and the `styles` folder to the root of your home folder:

    ```bash
    cp .vale.ini ~/
    cp -rf styles ~/
    ```

=== "Installing from your home directory"

    If you prefer not to have to copy the files and just want to create them in your home directory, you can use this command from `~/`:

    First, create the `.vale.ini` in your home folder using [the `vale.sh` website](https://vale.sh/generator). Again, choose "Red Hat Documentation Style Guide" for your base style and "alex" for the supplementary style. Then copy the contents into the `.vale.ini` file.

    ![vale_ini_nvchad](images/vale_ini_nvchad.png)

    Next, run the `vale sync` command. Since you are in your home directory, you will need the entire path to the binary:

    ```bash
    ~/.local/share/nvim/mason/packages/vale/vale sync
    ```

    ![vale_sync](images/vale_sync.png)

    In this case, there is no need to copy the files as they will be created in your home directory root.

### :material-file-edit-outline: The `lint.lua` file changes

There is one final step needed. You need to change the `lint.lua` file found in `~/.config/nvim/lua/custom/configs/` and add the `vale` linter.

Using the example shown above to add *vale* to the linter available for markdown files it will be necessary to add the new linter to the string already present:

```lua
markdown = { "markdownlint", "vale" },
```

Your file will look something like this when completed:

```lua
require("lint").linters_by_ft = {
  markdown = { "markdownlint", "vale" },
  yaml = { "yamllint" },
}

vim.api.nvim_create_autocmd({ "BufWritePost" }, {
  callback = function()
    require("lint").try_lint()
  end,
})

```

## Conclusions and final thoughts

Starting `nvim` normally will now invoke `vale`, and your documents will now be compared against your preferred style. Opening an existing file will start `vale` and show you any flagged items, while starting a new file will not show you anything in insert mode. When you exit insert mode, your file will then be checked. This keeps the screen from being too cluttered. `vale` is an excellent open source product with great integration into many editors. NvChad is no exception, and while getting it up and running does take a few steps, it is not a difficult procedure.
