docs/desktop/gnome/gnome-tweaks.md, before:

---
title: GNOME Tweaks
author: Steven Spencer
contributors:
---

## Introduction

GNOME tweaks is a tool to help users customize their desktop experience, including default fonts, windowing, workspaces, and more.

## Assumptions

* A Rocky Linux Workstation or Server with GUI installation that uses GNOME.

## Install GNOME tweaks

GNOME tweaks is available from the "appstream" repository, requiring no additional repository configuration. Install with:

```bash
sudo dnf install gnome-tweaks 
```

Installation includes all needed dependencies.

## Screens and functions

To start tweaks, from the Activities menu's search, type "tweaks" and click on "Tweaks."

![Tweaks General](images/01_tweaks.png)

*General* allows the changing of the default behavior of animations, suspension, and over amplification.

![Tweaks Appearance](images/02_tweaks.png)

*Appearance* allows the changing of theme defaults, and the background and lockscreen images.

![Tweaks Fonts](images/03_tweaks.png)

*Fonts* allows the changing of default fonts and sizes.

![Tweaks Keyboard and Mouse](images/04_tweaks.png)

*Keyboard & Mouse* allows the changing of default keyboard and mouse behavior.

![Tweaks Startup Applications](images/05_tweaks.png)

If you have applications you want to start when the GNOME shell starts, you can set that up in *Startup Applications*.

![Tweaks Top Bar](images/06_tweaks.png)

Customize the *Top Bar* (clock, calendar, battery) defaults here.

![Tweaks Window Titlebars](images/07_tweaks.png)

*Window Titlebars* allows changing of the default behavior of titlebars.

![Tweaks Windows](images/08_tweaks.png)

*Windows* allows changing the default behavior of windows.

![Tweaks Workspaces](images/09_tweaks.png)

*Workspaces* allows you to change how workspaces are created (dynamically or statically) and how you want those workspaces to appear.

!!! note

    You can reset everything back to defaults by using the three-bar menu next to "Tweaks" in the left-hand corner.

## Conclusion

GNOME tweaks is a good tool for customizing your GNOME desktop environment.

Commit message:

gnome-tweaks.md
grammar check, changed sequence of screenshots
(need to add first screen)

docs/desktop/gnome/gnome-tweaks.md, after:

---
title: GNOME Tweaks
author: Steven Spencer
contributors: Ganna Zhyrnova
---

## Introduction

GNOME Tweaks is a tool for customizing desktop experiences, including default fonts, windowing, workspaces, and more.

## Assumptions

* A Rocky Linux Workstation or Server with GUI installation that uses GNOME.

## Install GNOME tweaks

GNOME Tweaks is available from the "appstream" repository, requiring no additional repository configuration. Install with:

```bash
sudo dnf install gnome-tweaks 
```

Installation includes all needed dependencies.

## Screens and functions

To start tweaks, from the Activities menu's search, type "tweaks" and click on "Tweaks."

<!-- Please, add here a screen where you click Tweaks -->

*General* allows changing the default behavior of animations, suspension, and over-amplification.

![Tweaks General](images/01_tweaks.png)


*Appearance* allows the changing of theme defaults and the background and lock screen images.

![Tweaks Appearance](images/02_tweaks.png)


*Fonts* allows the changing of default fonts and sizes.

![Tweaks Fonts](images/03_tweaks.png)


*Keyboard & Mouse* allows changing default keyboard and mouse behavior.

![Tweaks Keyboard and Mouse](images/04_tweaks.png)

If you have applications you want to start when the GNOME shell starts, you can set that up in *Startup Applications*.

![Tweaks Startup Applications](images/05_tweaks.png)

Customize the *Top Bar* (clock, calendar, battery) defaults here.

![Tweaks Top Bar](images/06_tweaks.png)

*Window Titlebars* allows changing the default behavior of titlebars.

![Tweaks Window Titlebars](images/07_tweaks.png)

*Windows* allows changing the default behavior of windows.

![Tweaks Windows](images/08_tweaks.png)

*Workspaces* allows you to change how workspaces are created (dynamically or statically) and how you want those workspaces to appear.

![Tweaks Workspaces](images/09_tweaks.png)

!!! note

    You can reset everything back to defaults by using the three-bar menu next to "Tweaks" in the left-hand corner.

## Conclusion

GNOME Tweaks is a good tool for customizing your GNOME desktop environment.
