docs/books/web_services/01-files-servers.md, before:

---
author: 
contributors: 
title: Part 1. Files Servers
tags:
  - ftp
  - sftp
---
<!---

# Part 1. Files Servers

## FTP

In this chapter, you will learn about FTP Servers.

****

**Objectives**: In this chapter, you will learn how to:

:heavy_check_mark: XXX  
:heavy_check_mark: XXX  

:checkered_flag: **XXX**, **XXX**

**Knowledge**: :star:  
**Complexity**: :star:  

**Reading time**: XX minutes

****

### Generalities

### Configuration

### Security

### Workshop

#### Task 1 : XXX

#### Task 2 : XXX

#### Task 3 : XXX

#### Task 4 : XXX

### Check your Knowledge

:heavy_check_mark: Simple question? (3 answers)

:heavy_check_mark: Question with multiple answers?

* [ ] Answer 1  
* [ ] Answer 2  
* [ ] Answer 3  
* [ ] Answer 4  

## sFTP

In this chapter, you will learn about XXXXXXX.

****

**Objectives**: In this chapter, you will learn how to:

:heavy_check_mark: XXX  
:heavy_check_mark: XXX  

:checkered_flag: **XXX**, **XXX**

**Knowledge**: :star:  
**Complexity**: :star:  

**Reading time**: XX minutes

****

### Generalities

### Configuration

### Security

### Workshop

#### Task 1 : XXX

#### Task 2 : XXX

#### Task 3 : XXX

#### Task 4 : XXX

### Check your Knowledge

:heavy_check_mark: Simple question? (3 answers)

:heavy_check_mark: Question with multiple answers?

* [ ] Answer 1  
* [ ] Answer 2  
* [ ] Answer 3  
* [ ] Answer 4  

-->

Commit message:

Reorganize web services book (#2235)
* correct some content that was incorrect
* mostly this PR is focused on reorganization, more editing will be required

docs/books/web_services/01-files-servers.md, after:

---
author: 
contributors: 
title: Part 1. Files Servers
tags:
  - ftp
  - sftp
---

!!! info

    The content for this page has yet to be written. 

<!---

# Part 1. Files Servers

## FTP

In this chapter, you will learn about FTP Servers.

****

**Objectives**: In this chapter, you will learn how to:

:heavy_check_mark: XXX  
:heavy_check_mark: XXX  

:checkered_flag: **XXX**, **XXX**

**Knowledge**: :star:  
**Complexity**: :star:  

**Reading time**: XX minutes

****

### Generalities

### Configuration

### Security

### Workshop

#### Task 1 : XXX

#### Task 2 : XXX

#### Task 3 : XXX

#### Task 4 : XXX

### Check your Knowledge

:heavy_check_mark: Simple question? (3 answers)

:heavy_check_mark: Question with multiple answers?

* [ ] Answer 1  
* [ ] Answer 2  
* [ ] Answer 3  
* [ ] Answer 4  

## sFTP

In this chapter, you will learn about XXXXXXX.

****

**Objectives**: In this chapter, you will learn how to:

:heavy_check_mark: XXX  
:heavy_check_mark: XXX  

:checkered_flag: **XXX**, **XXX**

**Knowledge**: :star:  
**Complexity**: :star:  

**Reading time**: XX minutes

****

### Generalities

### Configuration

### Security

### Workshop

#### Task 1 : XXX

#### Task 2 : XXX

#### Task 3 : XXX

#### Task 4 : XXX

### Check your Knowledge

:heavy_check_mark: Simple question? (3 answers)

:heavy_check_mark: Question with multiple answers?

* [ ] Answer 1  
* [ ] Answer 2  
* [ ] Answer 3  
* [ ] Answer 4  

-->
